---
title: NRC-777 Token Standard
lang: en
---

## Introduction? {#introduction}

NRC-777 is a fungible token standard improving the existing [NRC-20](/docs/developers/token-standards/nrc-20) standard.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

To better understand this page, we recommend you first read about [NRC-20](/docs/developers/token-standards/nrc-20/).

## What improvements does NRC-777 propose over NRC-20? {#-NRC-777-vs-NRC-20}

The NRC-777 provides the following improvements over NRC-20.

### Hooks {#hooks}

Hooks are a function described in the code of a smart contract. Hooks get called when tokens are sent or received through the contract. This allows a smart contract to react to incoming or outgoing tokens.

#### Why are hooks great? {#why-are-hooks-great}

1. Hooks allow sending tokens to a contract and notifying the contract in a single transaction, unlike [NRC-20](/docs/developers/token-standards/nrc-20/), which requires a double call (`approve`/`transferFrom`) to achieve this.
2. Contracts that have not registered hooks are incompatible with NRC-777. The sending contract will abort the transaction when the receiving contract has not registered a hook. This prevents accidental transfers to non-NRC-777 smart contracts.
3. Hooks can reject transactions.

### Decimals {#decimals}

The standard also solves the confusion around `decimals` caused in NRC-20. This clarity improves the developer experience.

### Backwards compatibility with NRC-20 {#backwards-compatibility-with-NRC-20}

NRC-777 contracts can be interacted with as if they were NRC-20 contracts.

